---
title: "FileAct Adapter File and Transfer Identification | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 6a9aaff1-8816-42cf-b100-fedf964caaf5
caps.latest.revision: 4
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# FileAct Adapter File and Transfer Identification
The A4SWIFT FileAct adapter permits the developer to supply file and transfer identification specifics at runtime. These parameters include the following:  
  
-   **Physical file name** – the full path and name of the file to be read or written. This parameter is never passed, and is local to the file handler component.  
  
-   **Logical file name** – the file name passed from the sending application to the receiving application across SWIFTNet. This is optional, and, if not supplied, the physical file name without the path is used.  
  
-   **File transfer event endpoint** – the name specified in the Subscribe Event primitive by the application handling the file transfer events. This parameter links the file transfer to the application which receives the event reports.  
  
-   **File Transfer Reference** – a token string created and used by the FileAct subsystem as a handle on the transfer, itself. This is simply a string unique to this transfer, as far as the FileAct adapter is concerned.  
  
-   **Transfer Key** – a string assigned by the application to identify the transfer for abort purposes. If not provided by the application, this is the GUID associated with the file.  
  
-   **Transfer Partition** – a string used to relate multiple transfers. If not supplied in the calls by the developer, this will be the “Application Name” specified when defining the relevant send or receive location.  
  
-   **User Reference** – a string defined by the application to uniquely identify the transfer for non-repudiation. If not provided by the application, this will be the GUID associated with the file.  
  
-   **Message ID** – the identifier uniquely defining the initial request or response. This is the GUID associated with the appropriate request or response message, as generated by the sending adapter. Thus, the client generates the Message ID for requests and the server does so for responses.  
  
## See Also  
 [FileAct Adapter Architecture](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-architecture.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Real-Time End-to-End Primitives](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-real-time-end-to-end-primitives.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Real-Time Local Primitives](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-real-time-local-primitives.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Store and Forward](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-store-and-forward.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Security Architecture](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-security-architecture.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Supporting Information Transfer](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-supporting-information-transfer.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Delivery Notification](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-delivery-notification.md)   
 [FileAct Adapter Status Monitoring](../../adapters-and-accelerators/fileact-interact/fileact-adapter-status-monitoring.md)