---
title: "Invoke Scalar Functions in SQL Server by Using the WCF Service Model | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: a331e275-3c81-41a8-9ba1-3a801ebc259a
caps.latest.revision: 7
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Invoke Scalar Functions in SQL Server by Using the WCF Service Model
You can use the [!INCLUDE[adaptersqlshort](../../includes/adaptersqlshort-md.md)] in a .NET application using the WCF service model to invoke scalar functions in SQL Server. The adapter exposes the scalar functions as methods that can be invoked directly on SQL Server. For more information about how the adapter supports scalar functions, see [Execute Scalar Functions in SQL Server using the SQL adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-sql/execute-scalar-functions-in-sql-server-using-the-sql-adapter.md).  

## How This Topic Demonstrates Invoking Scalar Functions Using the WCF Service Model  
 This topic demonstrates how to invoke the GET_EMP_ID function in a SQL Server database. The GET_EMP_ID function takes the designation of an employee in the **Employee** table and returns the corresponding employee ID. The GET_EMP_ID function and the **Employee** table are created by running the SQL script provided with the samples. For more information, see [Adapter Samples](../../adapters-and-accelerators/accelerator-rosettanet/adapter-samples.md).  

## About the Examples Used in this Topic  
 The example in this topic invoked the GET_EMP_ID scalar function on the Employee table. The GET_EMP_ID function and the **Employee** table are created by running the SQL script provided with the samples. A sample, **ScalarFunction_ServiceModel**, which is based on this topic, is also provided with the [!INCLUDE[adaptersqlshort](../../includes/adaptersqlshort-md.md)] samples. For more information, see [Adapter Samples](../../adapters-and-accelerators/accelerator-rosettanet/adapter-samples.md).  

## The WCF Client Class  
 The name of the WCF client generated for invoking the scalar function in SQL Server using the [!INCLUDE[adaptersqlshort](../../includes/adaptersqlshort-md.md)] is listed in the following table.  

|SQL Server Database Artifact|WCF Client Name|  
|----------------------------------|---------------------|  
|Scalar function|ScalarFunctions_[SCHEMA]Client|  

 [SCHEMA] = Collection of SQL Server artifacts; for example, dbo.  

### Method Signature for Invoking Scalar Functions  
 The following table shows the method signatures for the basic operations on a table. The signatures are the same for a view, except that the view namespace and name replace those of the table.  


|      Operation       |                             Method Signature                             |
|----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Scalar function name | public *<return_type>*<em><scalar_function_name></em>(param1, param2, …) |

 \<*retrun_type*\> = Return type defined in the function definition  

 \<*scalar_function_name*\> = Name of the scalar function.  

 As an example, the following code shows the method signatures for a WCF client class generated for the **GET_EMP_ID** scalar functions, in the dbo schema, which takes the employee designation as a parameter and returns an employee ID (integer).  

```  
public partial class ScalarFunctions_dboClient : System.ServiceModel.ClientBase<ScalarFunctions_dbo>, ScalarFunctions_dbo {      
    public System.Nullable<int> GET_EMP_ID(string emp_desig);  
}  
```  

 In this snippet, **ScalarFunctions_dboClient** is the name of the WCF class in the SqlAdapterBindingClient.cs generated by the [!INCLUDE[addadapterservrefshort](../../includes/addadapterservrefshort-md.md)].  

### Parameters for Invoking Scalar Functions  
 The parameters for the methods exposed by the [!INCLUDE[adaptersqlshort](../../includes/adaptersqlshort-md.md)] to invoke a scalar function are the same as the parameters defined in the scalar function definition in SQL Server. For example, the parameter for invoking the GET_EMP_ID scalar function is emp_desig and takes an employee’s designation.  

 Again, the return value for a scalar function is same as the return value defined in the scalar function definition in SQL Server. For example, the return value for the GET_EMP_ID function is an employee’s ID of type integer.  

## Creating a WCF Client to Invoke Scalar Functions  
 The generic set of actions required to perform an operation on SQL Server using a WCF client involves a set of tasks described in [Overview of the WCF Service Model with the SQL Adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-sql/overview-of-the-wcf-service-model-with-the-sql-adapter.md). This section describes how to create a WCF client to invoke the **GET_EMP_ID** scalar function.  

#### To create a WCF client  

1. Create a Visual C# project in [!INCLUDE[btsVStudioNoVersion](../../includes/btsvstudionoversion-md.md)]. For this topic, create a console application.  

2. Generate the WCF client class for the **GET_EMP_ID** scalar function. For more information about generating a WCF client class, see [Generate a WCF Client or WCF Service Contract for SQL Server Artifacts](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-sql/generate-a-wcf-client-or-wcf-service-contract-for-sql-server-artifacts.md).  

3. In the Solution Explorer, add reference to `Microsoft.Adapters.Sql` and `Microsoft.ServiceModel.Channels`.  

4. Open the Program.cs and create a client as described in the snippet below.  

   ```  

             ScalarFunctions_dboClient client = new ScalarFunctions_dboClient("SqlAdapterBinding_ScalarFunctions_dbo");  
   client.ClientCredentials.UserName.UserName = "<Enter user name here>";  
   client.ClientCredentials.UserName.Password = "<Enter password here>";  
   ```  

    In this snippet, `ScalarFunctions_dboClient` is the WCF client defined in SqlAdapterBindingClient.cs. This file is generated by the [!INCLUDE[addadapterservrefshort](../../includes/addadapterservrefshort-md.md)]. `SqlAdapterBinding_ScalarFunctions_dbo` is the name of the client endpoint configuration and is defined in the app.config. This file is also generated by the [!INCLUDE[addadapterservrefshort](../../includes/addadapterservrefshort-md.md)] and contains the binding properties and other configuration settings.  

   > [!NOTE]
   >  In this snippet, you use the binding and endpoint address from the configuration file. You can also explicitly specify these values in your code. For more information on the different ways of specifying then client binding, see [Configure  a Client Binding for the SQL Adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-sql/configure-a-client-binding-for-the-sql-adapter.md).  

5. Open the client as described in the snippet below:  

   ```  
   try  
   {  
      Console.WriteLine("Opening Client...");  
      client.Open();  
   }  
   catch (Exception ex)  
   {  
      Console.WriteLine("Exception: " + ex.Message);  
      throw;  
   }  
   ```  

6. Invoke the **GET_EMP_ID** function to retrieve the ID for an employee with the designation as “Manager”.  

   ```  
   Console.WriteLine("Invoking the GET_EMP_ID function");  
   string emp_designation = "Manager";  
   try  
   {  
         System.Nullable<int> emp_id = client.GET_EMP_ID(emp_designation);  
         Console.WriteLine("The Employee ID for the employee with 'Manager' designation is:" + emp_id);  
   }  
   catch (Exception e)  
   {  
         Console.WriteLine("Exception: " + e.Message);  
         throw;  
   }  
   ```  

   > [!NOTE]
   >  For the sake of simplicity, the **Employee** table has only one employee with “Manager” designation. If your target table has more employees with the same designation, you must define the function accordingly.  

7. Close the client as described in the snippet below:  

   ```  
   client.Close();  
   Console.WriteLine("Press any key to exit...");  
   Console.ReadLine();  
   ```  

8. Build the project and then run it. The application displays the employee ID of the employee with the designation of “Manager”.  

## See Also  
[Develop applications using the WCF Service model](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-sql/develop-sql-applications-using-the-wcf-service-model.md)