---
title: "Import and Export BizTalk Server Configuration | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server-2013"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "Configuration Manager, prerequisites"
  - "editing, Configuration Manager"
  - "Configuration Manager, about Configuration Manager"
  - "Configuration Manager, exporting configurations"
  - "databases, Configuration Manager"
  - "databases, bulk editing"
  - "databases, configuring"
  - "Configuration Manager, applying configurations"
  - "service accounts"
  - "Configuration Manager, unconfiguring"
  - "service accounts, editing"
  - "Configuration Manager, editing databases"
  - "Configuration Manager, importing configurations"
  - "editing"
  - "editing, databases"
ms.assetid: c6206ed8-d087-44cc-8ab5-da5d8a28e09a
caps.latest.revision: 40
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Import and Export BizTalk Server Configuration
The BizTalk Server Configuration provides a high-level analysis on the configuration state of the features you have installed on the local machine. The tool allows you to configure and unconfigure features, configure security settings, and import and export configurations.  
  
## Prerequisites for Using the BizTalk Server Configuration  
 When you configure [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] using custom configuration, consider the following:  
  
-   The account you are logged on as must be part of the local administrators group and have System Administrator rights on SQL Server.  
  
-   The default accounts generated by BizTalk Server and listed in the BizTalk Server Configuration are local groups. In a multiserver environment you must substitute the local groups with domain groups.  
  
-   The account you are logged on as must be a member of the OLAP Administrators group on the OLAP computer if configuring.  
  
    > [!NOTE]
    >  If you change the group membership of the current logged-in user, and the group is also a member of the domain, you should logout and login after changes are completed. Failure to do this will result in denied access because new group membership will not be reflected by the current login.  
  
## Applying Configurations  
 You can apply BizTalk Server configurations using the BizTalk Server Configuration.  
  
#### To apply configurations  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **Apply Configuration**.  
  
2.  On the **Summary** screen, review the configuration, and then click **Next**.  
  
3.  On the **Completion** screen, click **Finish**.  
  
## Importing Configurations  
 You can import BizTalk Server configuration files using the BizTalk Server Configuration. For more information about working with these files, see [Working with the Configuration Framework](../install-and-config-guides/working-with-the-configuration-framework.md).  
  
 When you import a configuration file you must ensure that the configuration file does not configure a component that has not been installed on the BizTalk Server you are attempting to configure. Attempting to configure a component that does not exist on the BizTalk Server may lead to a deadlock condition. In this situation, you must first unconfigure components that depend on the component that the configuration file is attempting to configure. However, attempting to unconfigure dependent components will require that the missing component be present and configured. To resolve this problem you must either edit the configuration file to remove references to uninstalled components, or apply the configuration file to a compatible installation of BizTalk Server.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Passwords and Backup file locations are not saved in the configuration file you will be importing unless you have manually edited the file. If features are already configured, they will not be imported.  
  
#### To import configurations  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **Import Configuration**.  
  
2.  In the **Open** dialog box, select the configuration file you want to import, and then click **Open**.  
  
3.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **Apply Configuration**.  
  
4.  On the **Summary** screen, review the configuration, and then click **Next**.  
  
5.  On the **Completion** screen, click **Finish**.  
  
## Exporting Configurations  
 You can export BizTalk Server configurations using the BizTalk Server Configuration For more information about working with these files, see [Working with the Configuration Framework](../install-and-config-guides/working-with-the-configuration-framework.md)  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Passwords are not saved to the configuration file.  
  
#### To export configurations  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **Export Configuration**.  
  
2.  In the **Save As** dialog box, type the file name you want to save, and then click **Save**.  
  
## Unconfiguring Features  
 You can unconfigure BizTalk Server features on the machine by removing them in the BizTalk Server Configuration.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  The BizTalk Server Administration Console should be closed prior to unconfiguring features.  
  
#### To unconfigure features  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **Unconfigure Features**.  
  
2.  In the **Unconfigure Features** dialog box, select the features you want to remove, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]
    >  A dialog box appears warning you that you are about to unconfigure the features you have selected. Click **Yes** to proceed.  
  
3.  On the **Summary** screen, review the configuration, and then click **Next**.  
  
4.  On the **Completion** screen, click **Finish**.  
  
## Editing Databases  
 You can change the database servers and databases associated with BizTalk Server features by editing them in the BizTalk Server Configuration.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Configuring [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] against SQL Server default instances and named instances is supported.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  This tool allows you to bulk edit the databases.  
  
#### To edit databases  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **View**, and then click **Databases.**  
  
2.  In the **Databases** dialog box, select the feature you want to edit, and then click **Edit**.  
  
3.  In the **Databases** dialog box, type the database server name and database name you want to use, and then click **OK**.  
  
4.  In the **Databases** dialog box, click **Close**.  
  
## Editing Service Accounts  
 You can change the service accounts associated with BizTalk Server features by editing them in the BizTalk Server Configuration.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  This tool allows you to bulk edit the accounts.  
  
#### To edit service accounts  
  
1.  In the **BizTalk Server Configuration**, click **View**, and then click **Service Accounts**.  
  
2.  In the **Service Accounts** dialog box, select the feature you want to edit, and then click **Edit**.  
  
3.  In the **User Credentials** dialog box, type the username and password you want to use, and then click **OK**.  
  
4.  In the **Service Accounts** dialog box, click **Close**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Configure BizTalk Server](../install-and-config-guides/configure-biztalk-server.md)   
 [Working with the Configuration Framework](../install-and-config-guides/working-with-the-configuration-framework.md)   
 [Feature Dependency Matrix](../core/feature-dependency-matrix.md)