---
title: "Operations on Functions and Procedures with REF CURSOR Parameters in Oracle Database | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "IN REF CURSOR"
  - "REF CURSOR"
  - "OUT REF CURSOR"
  - "IN OUT REF CURSOR"
ms.assetid: 691c4aca-3454-41d6-b211-a4d37f215331
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Operations on Functions and Procedures with REF CURSOR Parameters in Oracle Database
A REF CURSOR is a PL/SQL data type that represents a pointer to a server-side result set generated by executing a query. A REF CURSOR type enables input and output streaming of data and is ideal for transferring large amounts of data to and from a PL/SQL code. The [!INCLUDE[adapteroracle_short](../../includes/adapteroracle-short-md.md)] provides support for strongly-typed and weakly-typed (SYS_REFCURSOR) REF CURSORs that can be passed to PL/SQL procedures and functions as IN, OUT, or IN OUT parameters.  
  
- **IN REF CURSOR**. Adapter clients must use an IN REF CURSOR by supplying a PL/SQL code (as string) that opens REF CURSOR on the Oracle database. The adapter creates variable and sets it the opened REF CURSOR and calls a function or procedure with that variable. Therefore, IN REF CURSOR parameters in PL/SQL stored procedure and functions should be represented as strings that take a PL/SQL code block as input value marking the OUT REF CURSOR variable with a "?".  
  
- **OUT REF CURSOR**. OUT REF CURSOR parameters are returned as either strongly-typed or weakly-typed result sets. The type of the result set returned depends on whether the REF CURSOR parameter is declared as a strongly-typed or weakly-typed REF CURSOR in the stored procedure or function definition on the Oracle server.  
  
- **IN OUT REF CURSOR parameters**. Because the [!INCLUDE[adapteroracle_short](../../includes/adapteroracle-short-md.md)] models IN REF CURSOR parameters as strings and OUT REF CURSOR parameters as complex types, it cannot support a single type for an IN OUT REF CURSOR parameter. For this reason, it treats IN OUT REF CURSOR parameters as two different parameters: an IN parameter in the request message and an OUT parameter in the response message.  
  
  For more information about:  
  
- Invoking a function or procedure involving REF CURSOR parameters using the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)], see [Invoke Functions and Procedures with REF CURSORS in Oracle Database using BizTalk Server](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-oracle-database/run-functions-and-procedures-with-ref-cursors-in-oracle-db-using-biztalk-server.md).  
  
- Invoking a function or procedure involving REF CURSOR parameters using the WCF service model, see [Run Operations Using REF CURSORS in Oracle Database using the WCF Service Model](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-oracle-database/run-operations-using-ref-cursors-in-oracle-database-using-the-wcf-service-model.md).  
  
- XML structure for REF CURSORS as supported by the [!INCLUDE[adapteroracle_short](../../includes/adapteroracle-short-md.md)], see [Message Schemas for REF CURSORS](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-oracle-database/message-schemas-for-ref-cursors.md).  
  
## See Also  
 [Connect to Oracle Database using the adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-oracle-database/connect-to-oracle-database-using-the-adapter.md)