---
title: "Alert Manager on the BAM Portal Page | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
 ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "BAM portal, alerts"
  - "alerts, creating"
  - "Alert Manager page [BAM portal]"
ms.assetid: 9e2a17e5-94f8-48ea-b704-44168fab6981
caps.latest.revision: 12
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Alert Manager on the BAM Portal Page
Business users, developers, and business analysts use the Alert Manager on the BAM portal page to create or edit an alert.  
  
 An alert is a notification generated by the BAM infrastructure to inform the recipient that a given set of conditions exists. The Alert Manager page of the portal provides a user interface (UI) for creating alerts and editing existing alerts. Alerts take the conditions that are to be monitored from either the Activity Search page or Aggregations page. You use the Alert Manager to fill in all the relevant parts of an alert, such as who to notify, how to notify them (for example, through e-mail), and whether others can see the alert and/or subscribe to it.  
  
 Subscribing to an alert allows you to be notified when the conditions of the alert are met.  
  
## Creating alerts  
 To create an alert, you access the Alert Manager by using the **Set Alert** button from either the Activity Search or Aggregations page. (The Activity Search and Aggregations pages are where users define the conditions to be monitored. For example you may want to monitor a single result, such as a purchase order that has arrived from a partner, or an aggregation, such as 500 or greater invoices in evaluation.  
  
 You create an alert when you or other users need to be notified of events and workflow details that relate to the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of your business. You create an alert by filling in the details for the alert, such as which users to notify, how to notify them (for example, through e-mail), and whether other users can see or subscribe to the alert.  
  
## The Alert Manager page  
 The Alert Manager page of the BAM portal consists of three sections:  
  
-   **Alert Summary**: Contains a data grid that displays public alerts for the view context.  
  
-   **Alert Details**: Displays details about the configuration of the alert. These details include the name of the alert, the message included with the alert, the owner, and the priority.  In the Alert Details section the user can also specify whether the alert can be subscribed to by other users.  
  
-   **Subscriptions**: Users subscribe to alerts by using this section.  
  
## See Also  
 [Components of the BAM Portal](../core/components-of-the-bam-portal.md)   
 [BAM Portal](../core/bam-portal.md)