---
title: "Build and Test the Adapter Project | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 0b5eb486-99ae-4661-b0d0-d2d363d97b73
caps.latest.revision: 26
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Build and Test the Adapter Project
To test all of the changes made to the AdapterManagement project, rebuild the project. After a successful build, run the Add Adapter Metadata Wizard to ensure that all of the internal and external XSD files are added to the AdapterManagement project. For instructions on using the Add Adapter Metadata Wizard, see [How to Add Adapter Metadata to a BizTalk Project](../core/how-to-add-adapter-metadata-to-a-biztalk-project.md).  

 To test the changes made to the configuration schemas, open each of the property pages generated by the XSD file to ensure that it asks for and accepts the correct data. You do this by configuring a send port, receive location, send handler, and receive handler in the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administration console<strong>.</strong>  

> [!NOTE]
>  An adapter might not have all of the configuration schemas. For example, a send adapter that does not support receiving messages might have only the TransmitLocation.xsd and TransmitHandler.xsd schemas.  

### To test the TransmitLocation.xsd file  

1. Click **Start**, point to **All Programs**, point to [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerStartMenuItemui](../includes/btsbiztalkserverstartmenuitemui-md.md)], and then click **BizTalk Server Administration**.  

2. Expand the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServer2006r3ui](../includes/btsbiztalkserver2006r3ui-md.md)] **Administration** node, expand **BizTalk Group**, expand the **Send Ports** node, point to **New**, and then click **Static One-way Send Port**.  

3. In the **Send Port Properties** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type the name of the send port. Expand the **Transport** node, and then select the **Primary** node.  

4. In the right pane, in the **Transport Type value** box, select **Static**, and then click **Configure**. The displayed screen should contain the fields you specified in the TransmitLocation.xsd file.  

### To test the ReceiveLocation.xsd file  

1. Expand the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServer2006r3ui](../includes/btsbiztalkserver2006r3ui-md.md)] **Administration** node, expand **BizTalk Group**, expand the **Receive Ports** collection, expand the newly created receive port or the receive port to which you want to add a receive location, right-click the **Receive Locations** collection, point to **New**, and then click **One-way Receive Location**.  

2. In the **Select a Receive Port** dialog box, select the port.  

3. In the **Receive Location Properties** dialog box, in the left pane, select the **General** node.  

4. In the **Receive Location Properties** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type a name for the receive location.  

5. In the **Receive Location Properties** dialog box, in the right pane, in the **Transport Type value** box, select **Static** and then click **Configure**. The displayed screen should contain the fields you specified in the ReceiveLocation.xsd file.  

### To test the ReceiveHandler.xsd file  

1. Click **Start**, point to **All Programs**, point to [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerStartMenuItemui](../includes/btsbiztalkserverstartmenuitemui-md.md)], and then click **BizTalk Server Administration**.  

2. Expand the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServer2006r3ui](../includes/btsbiztalkserver2006r3ui-md.md)] **Administration** node, expand **BizTalk Group,** expand **Platform Settings**, expand **Adapters**, click **Static**, and then click **BizTalkServerApplication** with the direction of **Receive**.  

3. In the results pane, right-click the receive handler, and then click **Properties**. On the **General** tab, click **Properties**. The displayed screen should contain the fields you specified in the ReceiveHandler.xsd file.  

### To test the TransmitHandler.xsd file  

1. In the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administration console, click **Static**, and then click **BizTalkServerApplication** with the direction of **Send**.  

2. In the results pane, right-click the receive handler, and then click **Properties**. On the **General** tab, click **Properties**. The displayed screen should contain the fields you specified in the TransmitHandler.xsd file.
