---
title: "Configuring Envelopes (EDIFACT-Interchange Settings) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 501ccc5f-e21c-4c36-9509-217d5b3ba21f
caps.latest.revision: 4
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Configuring Envelopes (EDIFACT-Interchange Settings)
This section provides instructions on how to configure the envelope for outgoing EDIFACT messages.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  All the properties are disabled on this page if you cleared the **Local BizTalk processes messages received by the party or supports sending messages from this party** check box while creating the party for which you are creating the agreement.  
>   
>  The properties are disabled only on the one-way agreement tab that corresponds to the properties for interchanges being sent from the party. For example, if you create two parties Party A and Party B and for Party A, you cleared the check box, the above list of properties are disabled on the **Party A->Party B** one-way agreement tab.  
  
## Prerequisites  
 You must be logged on as a member of the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administrators or [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] B2B Operators group.  
  
### To configure the interchange envelope  
  
1. Create an EDIFACT encoding agreement as described in [Configuring General Settings (EDIFACT)](../core/configuring-general-settings-edifact.md). To update an existing agreement, right-click the agreement in the **Parties and Business Profiles** page, and click **Properties**.  
  
2. On a one-way agreement tab, under **Interchange Settings** section, click **Envelopes**.  
  
3. For **Processing priority code (UNB8)**, enter an alphabetical value with a minimum of one character and a maximum of one character. This is an optional field.  
  
4. For **Communication agreement (UNB10)**, enter an alphanumeric value with a minimum of one character and a maximum of 35 characters. This is an optional field  
  
5. Select **Test indicator (UNB11)** to indicate that the interchange generated by [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] is test data.  
  
6. Select **Apply UNA segment (String service advice)** to generate a UNA segment for the interchange to be sent. If this option is checked, then **UNA6** cannot be empty and **UNA 6 Suffix** cannot be **None**.  
  
   > [!NOTE]
   >  You specify **UNA6** and **UNA6 Suffix** in the **Charset and Separators** page as described in [Configuring Charset and Separators (EDIFACT)](../core/configuring-charset-and-separators-edifact.md).  
  
7. Select **Apply UNG segments (Functional group header)** to create grouping segments in the functional group header in outgoing messages.  
  
8. Click **Apply** to accept the changes before continuing with the configuration, or click **OK** to validate the changes and then close the dialog box.  
  
## See Also  
 [Configuring Interchange Settings (EDIFACT)](../core/configuring-interchange-settings-edifact.md)