---
title: "Configuring Common Fallback Properties for X12 and EDIFACT Encoded Messages | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 7393d6ac-b901-43ef-a8d6-c5b0b3033257
caps.latest.revision: 11
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Configuring Common Fallback Properties for X12 and EDIFACT Encoded Messages
Fallback properties apply to both X12 (including HIPAA) - and EDIFACT-encoded interchanges. As with all fallback agreement properties, these properties apply only when [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] has not determined the agreement to which an incoming our outgoing message resolves to.  
  
## Prerequisites  
 You must be logged on as a member of the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administrators or [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] B2B Operators group.  
  
### To set common global properties  
  
1. In the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administration Console, right-click the **Parties** node, and then click **X12 Fallback Settings** or **EDIFACT Fallback Settings**.  
  
2. In the **Fallback Settings General Pages** tab, on the **General** page, do the following:  
  
   1. Click **Enable Fallback Settings** to enable [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] to use the fallback agreement settings if no agreement is resolved for incoming or outgoing messages.  
  
      > [!IMPORTANT]
      >  If this option is not checked, [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] will not use the properties set in the fallback agreement.  
  
   2. Click **Activate EDI Reporting** to activate reporting for all EDI messages. This ensures messages are displayed in the status reporting screens displayed by clicking the links at the bottom of the **Group Hub** pane of the BizTalk Server Administration Console.  
  
   3. If you clicked **Activate EDI Reporting**, click **Store transaction set/payload for reporting** to store transaction sets in the EDI tables of the tracking (BizTalkDTADb) database.  
  
   4. Click **Log EDI errors and warnings generated by EDI engine to Windows event log** to log error/warnings messages generated by the EDI engine (EDI pipelines, batching orchestration, routing orchestration, etc.), with contextual information, to the Windows Event Viewer. If cleared, these error/warning messages will not be logged to the Event Viewer.  
  
      > [!NOTE]
      >  System/processing errors are logged in the Event Viewer whether or not this checkbox is selected.  
  
3. Click **Apply** to accept the changes before continuing with the configuration, or click **OK** to validate and accept the changes and then close the dialog box.  
  
## See Also  
 [Configuring Global or Fallback Agreement Properties](../core/configuring-global-or-fallback-agreement-properties.md)