---
title: "Configuring Envelopes (X12-Interchange Settings) | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: c4fade73-14cf-475c-81b5-6102c75db991
caps.latest.revision: 7
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Configuring Envelopes (X12-Interchange Settings)
X12 interchange envelope generation settings define how [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] generates the envelope of an X12-encoded interchange to be sent to the receiving party. In this section, you define how [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] generates the ISA segment for an X12-encoded interchange that it sends to the party. An ISA segment is the interchange control header for an X12-encoded interchange.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  For the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] runtime, the length of alphanumeric ISA fields is fixed. However, for the [!INCLUDE[TPM](../includes/tpm-md.md)] user interface, you may enter a single character for an alphanumeric ISA field. [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] will pad these fields with trailing space characters to ensure compliance with standards requirements.  
> 
> [!NOTE]
>  The settings described here also apply to HIPAA interchange envelope generation.  
> 
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  All the properties are disabled on this page if you cleared the **Local BizTalk processes messages received by the party or supports sending messages from this party** check box while creating the party for which you are creating the agreement.  
> 
>  The properties are disabled only on the one-way agreement tab that corresponds to the properties for interchanges being sent from the party. For example, if you create two parties Party A and Party B and for Party A, you cleared the check box, the above list of properties are disabled on the **Party A->Party B** one-way agreement tab.  
  
## Prerequisites  
 You must be logged on as a member of the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administrators or [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] B2B Operators group.  
  
### To define the envelope  
  
1. Create an X12 encoding agreement as described in [Configuring General Settings (X12)](../core/configuring-general-settings-x12.md). To update an existing agreement, right-click the agreement in the **Parties and Business Profiles** page, and click **Properties**.  
  
2. On a one-way agreement tab, under **Interchange Settings** section, click **Envelopes**.  
  
3. Under **ISA11 usage**, keep **Standard identifier** selected to specify a standard identifier instead of a repetition separator, and then select a value for the standard identifier from the drop-down list. Select **Repetition separator** to specify a repetition separator instead of a standard identifier, and then enter a single character for the repetition separator. The repetition separator, which is used to separate segments that repeat within a transaction set, is limited to the values in the ASCII character set.  
  
4. For **Control version number (ISA12)**, select the version of the X12 standard to be used by [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] for generating an outgoing interchange.  
  
5. For **Usage indicator (ISA15)**, select to indicate whether an interchange generated by [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] is information, production data, or test data.  
  
6. Click **Apply** to accept the changes before continuing with the configuration, or click **OK** to validate the changes and then close the dialog box.  
  
## See Also  
 [Configuring Interchange Settings (X12)](../core/configuring-interchange-settings-x12.md)