---
title: "Enabling Error Reporting | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 1131bbd5-7ab3-4422-b6df-747c722f0b2c
caps.latest.revision: 19
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Enabling Error Reporting
[!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] enables you to select whether you want to display enhanced errors and warnings in the Windows Event Viewer.  
  
 The procedure below enables or disables reporting of errors or warnings that are generated by the EDI reporting mechanism or the EDI engine. You can enable reporting of such errors or warning as part of an agreement or as part of the fallback agreement. As part of an agreement, this reporting is enabled by default. As part of the fallback agreement, this reporting is disabled by default. However, system/processing errors generated by [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] are always logged in the Event Viewer (displayed by entering `eventvwr` in the **Run** dialog box), whether the EDI errors or warnings are enabled or not.  
  
## Prerequisites  
 You must be logged on as a member of the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administrators group.  
  
### To enable error reporting for an agreement  
  
1. In the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administration Console, under the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerAdminConsoleui](../includes/btsbiztalkserveradminconsoleui-md.md)] and **BizTalk Group** nodes, click the **Parties** node.  
  
2. In the **Parties and Business Profiles** pane, click the party that has the X12 or EDIFACT agreement for which you want to enable logging errors and warnings to the event log.  
  
   > [!NOTE]
   >  You cannot log errors and warning to the event viewer for AS2 agreements.  
  
3. In the **Agreements** section, right-click the X12 or EDIFACT agreement for which you want to enable logging errors and warning, and then click **Properties**.  
  
4. In the **Common Host Settings** section, click **Log errors to event log** or **Log warnings to event log**.  
  
5. Click **OK** or click **Apply**.  
  
### To enable error reporting as part of a fallback agreement  
  
1. In the [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)] Administration console, right-click the **Parties** node under the **BizTalk Group** node, and then click **X12 Fallback Settings** or **EDIFACT Fallback Settings**.  
  
2. In the **Fallback Settings General Pages** tab, to enable the logging of EDI errors or warnings generated by the BizTalk EDI engine, click **Log EDI errors and warnings generated by EDI engine to Windows event log**. The error log will include error data and contextual information.  
  
   > [!NOTE]
   >  System/processing errors are logged in the Event Viewer whether or not this checkbox is selected.  
  
   > [!NOTE]
   >  You do not have to select the **Activate EDI Reporting** property in order to select the **Log EDI errors and warnings generated by EDI engine to Windows event log** property.  
  
## See Also  
 [Monitoring EDI and AS2 Solutions](../core/monitoring-edi-and-as2-solutions.md)   
 [EDI Acknowledgment Error Codes](../core/edi-acknowledgment-error-codes.md)   
 [AS2 Events](../core/as2-events.md)