---
title: "Exception Handling | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
 ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 00a9125c-7c7c-4d2a-ae04-c923cd89683c
caps.latest.revision: 6
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Exception Handling
The **RuleEngine** class has the property **CompensationHandlerInfo**, which in turn has two properties: **CompensationHandler** and **UserData**. The **CompensationHandler** property is of type **RuleEngineCompensationHandler**, and the **UserData** property is of type **Object**. The definition for the **RuleEngineCompensationHandler** is as follows:  
  
```  
public delegate bool RuleEngineCompensationHandler(  
   Exception ex,  
   object userData  
);  
```  
  
 The rule engine consumer specifies the handler and the user data to the rule engine by using the **CompensationHandlerInfo** property of the **RuleEngine** class. The handler must have the same signature as the **RuleEngineCompensationHandler** delegate. If there is a run-time exception, the engine calls the handler and passes the exception and the predefined user data as parameters to the handler. If the handler returns `true`, then the rule engine continues processing. Otherwise, the rule engine aborts processing and returns to the user with the original exception. As you can see, you can use this exception-handling mechanism only if you invoke the policy by using the **RuleEngine.Execute** method.  
  
 If you use the **Policy.Execute** method to execute a policy, you will need to use a try-catch block to catch any exceptions generated by the rule engine while executing the policy.  
  
 If you use the **Call Rules** shape to execute a policy, use the **Catch Exception** block for the **Scope** shape to catch an exception raised by the rule engine while executing the policy.  
  
## See Also  
 [How to Add a Catch Exception Block](../core/how-to-add-a-catch-exception-block3.md)