---
description: "Learn more about: How to Back Up the BAM Portal"
title: "How to Back Up the BAM Portal | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 8cea02e6-e387-4048-a1f3-d7c3c562f470
caps.latest.revision: 14
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# How to Back Up the BAM Portal
If you are using Business Activity Monitoring (BAM), you must back up the BAM portal as part of backing up your BizTalk server. If you are not using BAM, this procedure is optional.

 Certain portions of the backup process differ markedly depending on which version of Internet Information Services (IIS) you are backing up. IIS 6.0 permits you to back up the application pool configuration and web site configuration separately, and you can encrypt the configuration backup files using a password.

 IIS 7.0 saves configuration settings for both the application pool and web site to a single file, applicationHost.config. The applicationHost.config file is not encrypted, but account passwords, if any, are encrypted in the file. Encryption is performed using the certificate from the computer you are backing up. This configuration cannot be restored to a computer other than the one from which it originated.

 You cannot back up the BAM portal configuration using the IIS 7.0 Manager; you must use the **Appcmd.exe** command-line tool. For more information about Appcmd, see [https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=147497](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=147497).

## Prerequisites
 You must be logged on as a member of the Administrators group to perform this procedure.

### To back up the BAM portal (IIS 7.0)

1.  Click **Start**, and then click **Run**.

2.  On the Run dialog, in the Open box, type the following: `runas /user:`*computername*`\`*accountname* `cmd`, and then click **OK** or press **Enter**.

     *Accountname* must be a member of the administrators group on the local computer.

3.  When prompted, type the password for *accountname*, and then press **Enter**.

4.  Type `cd %windir%\system32\inetsrv`, and then press **Enter**.

5.  Type `appcmd add backup “`*backupname*`”`, and then press **Enter**.

     You do not have to enter a backup name. If not set, it will be autogenerated. An example of an autogenerated backup name is “20090224T123302.”

     To see a list of existing configuration backups, type `appcmd list backup`, and then press **Enter**. Backups created by the user are saved in the **%windir%\system32\inetsrv\backup** directory. To see a list of the backup options provided by **appcmd.exe**, type `appcmd backup /?`, and then press **Enter**.

## See Also
 [Backing Up a Computer Running BizTalk Server](../core/backing-up-a-computer-running-biztalk-server.md)
 [Recovering a Computer Running BizTalk Server](../core/recovering-a-computer-running-biztalk-server.md)
 [BAM Portal](../core/bam-portal.md)
