---
title: "How to Add a Binding File to an Application2 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.service: "biztalk-server"
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "managing [applications], binding files"
  - "applications, binding files"
  - "binding files, applications"
ms.assetid: 1543ee5f-9ae4-4683-b6fe-ee84028c381d
caps.latest.revision: 22
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# How to Add a Binding File to an Application
This topic describes how to use the BizTalk Server Administration console or the command line to add a binding file to a BizTalk application. You might want to do this to make application or assembly deployment easier, as described in [Binding Files and Application Deployment](../core/binding-files-and-application-deployment.md).  
  
 You can export bindings into an .xml file from a BizTalk application for an assembly, application, or group, as described in [Exporting Bindings](../core/exporting-bindings6.md), and then use one of the procedures in this topic to add the binding file to an application.  
  
 When you do this, the binding file is added to the BizTalk Management database and displays in the BizTalk Server Administration console, in the Resources folder of the application. Unlike importing a binding file, adding a binding file does not immediately apply its bindings. Instead, the bindings are applied when the application is imported into another BizTalk group.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  For security reasons, when you export bindings, BizTalk Server removes the passwords for the bindings from the file. After importing the bindings, you must reconfigure passwords for send ports and receive locations before they will function. You configure passwords in the Transport Properties dialog box of the BizTalk Server Administration console for the send port or receive location. For instructions, see [How to Create a Send Port](../core/how-to-create-a-send-port2.md). See also [How to Create a Receive Location](../core/how-to-create-a-receive-location.md).  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  When you use a binding file that was generated in [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServer2004](../includes/btsbiztalkserver2004-md.md)], be aware that the trust level of the host is not stored in the binding file. When the bindings are applied during binding import or application import, artifacts are bound to hosts based on the host name only. You should verify that the artifacts have been bound to the correct host and that the trust level is appropriate.  
  
 When you add a binding file to an application, you can specify a value for the target deployment environment with a string that represents the environment, such as Test or Production. You can use any string for this value. Then, when you import the application, you can select which binding file to apply by providing the value that was specified for its target environment. When you do this, the bindings are applied from the binding file. Any existing bindings in the application that have the same name as bindings in the file are automatically overwritten.  
  
 When you import an application, bindings are applied in the following order. As bindings are applied during the import process, bindings that have already been applied are overwritten by new bindings that have the same name. In other words, the last binding of a particular name to be applied takes effect.  
  
1.  Application bindings generated by BizTalk Server that were not explicitly added to the application via a binding file, but that were explicitly selected by the user for export into the application .msi file.  
  
2.  Binding files that have been explicitly added, and do not have a target deployment environment specified. Bindings in this set are applied in no specific order.  
  
3.  Bindings that have been explicitly added, and that have an associated target deployment environment that matches the deployment environment selected for application import. Bindings in this set are applied in no specific order.  
  
 For more information about importing applications and applying bindings, see [How to Import a BizTalk Application](../core/how-to-import-a-biztalk-application.md).  
  
## Prerequisites  
 To perform the procedures in this topic, you must be logged on with an account that is a member of the BizTalk Server Administrators group. For more detailed information on permissions, see [Permissions Required for Deploying and Managing a BizTalk Application](../core/permissions-required-for-deploying-and-managing-a-biztalk-application.md).  
  
## To add a binding file to an application  
  
#### Using the BizTalk Server Administration console  
  
1.  Click **Start**, click **All Programs**, click [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerStartMenuItemui](../includes/btsbiztalkserverstartmenuitemui-md.md)], and then click **BizTalk Server Administration**.  
  
2.  In the console tree, expand [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServer2006r3](../includes/btsbiztalkserver2006r3-md.md)] Administration and the BizTalk group containing the application to which you want to add a binding file.  
  
3.  Expand Applications, and right-click the application to which you want to add a binding file.  
  
4.  Point to **Add**, and then click **Resources**.  
  
5.  Click **Add**, select the file to add, and then click **Open**.  
  
6.  To overwrite an existing binding file in this application that has the same file name, select the **Overwrite all** check box. If another file exists with the same name, and you do not select this check box, the add operation will fail.  
  
7.  In the **File type** drop-down list, select **System.BizTalk:BizTalkBinding**.  
  
8.  In **Target Environment**, type a string to represent the target deployment environment where you want the bindings in this file to be applied, such as Test, and click **OK**.  
  
    > [!IMPORTANT]
    >  If you leave this field blank, the bindings in this file will always be applied upon application import.  
  
     The binding file is added, and it displays in the Resources folder of the application.  
  
#### Using the command line  
  
1.  Open a command prompt as follows: Click **Start**, click **Run**, type `cmd`, and then click **OK**.  
  
2.  Type the following command, substituting the appropriate values, as described in the following table:  
  
     **BTSTask AddResource** [**/ApplicationName:"***value***"**] **/Type:System.BizTalk:BizTalkBinding** [**/Overwrite**] **/Source:***value***/Property:TargetEnvironment="***value***"** [**/Server:***value*] [**/Database:***value*]  
  
     Example:  
  
     **BTSTask AddResource /ApplicationName:"My Application" /Type:System.BizTalk:BizTalkBinding  /Source:"C:\Binding Files\MyBinding.xml" /Property:TargetEnvironment="Production" /Server:MyDatabaseServer /Database:BizTalkMgmtDb**  
  
    |Parameter|Value|  
    |---------------|-----------|  
    |**/ApplicationName**|Name of the BizTalk application to which to add the binding file. If the application name is not specified, the default BizTalk application is used. If the name includes spaces, you must enclose it in double quotation marks (").|  
    |**/Type**|**System.BizTalk:BizTalkBinding** (This value is not case-sensitive.)|  
    |**/Overwrite**|Option to update an existing binding file. If not specified, and binding file already exists in the application that has the same file name as the file being added, the AddResource operation fails.|  
    |**/Source**|Full path of the binding file, including the file name. If the path includes spaces, you must enclose it in double quotation marks (").|  
    |**/Property:TargetEnvironment=**|A string that specifies the target deployment environment. You can use any string, for example Production. Example: **/Property:TargetEnvironment="Production"**<br /><br /> If not specified, a value of \<Default> is automatically applied. The value is case sensitive. If the value includes spaces, you must enclose it in double quotation marks ("). The maximum length of the environment value is 128 characters.|  
    |**/Server**|Name of the SQL Server instance hosting the BizTalk Management database, in the form ServerName\InstanceName,Port.<br /><br /> Instance name is only required when the instance name is different than the server name. Port is only required when SQL Server uses a port number other than the default (1433).<br /><br /> Examples:<br /><br /> Server=MyServer<br /><br /> Server=MyServer\MySQLServer,1533<br /><br /> If not provided, the name of the SQL Server instance running on the local computer is used.|  
    |**/Database**|Name of the BizTalk Management database. If not specified, the BizTalk Management database running in the local instance of SQL Server is used.|  
  
## See Also  
 [Managing .NET Assemblies, Certificates, and Other Resources](../core/managing-net-assemblies-certificates-and-other-resources.md)   
 [AddResource Command: BizTalk Binding](../core/addresource-command-biztalk-binding.md)   
 [Creating and Modifying BizTalk Applications](../core/creating-and-modifying-biztalk-applications.md)