---
title: "How to Link to a Readme File | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "linking, readme files"
  - "applications, readme files"
  - "linking, applications"
  - "applications, linking"
ms.assetid: 7ddbfe77-c8b5-4f90-80ee-8fd5ba57170b
caps.latest.revision: 15
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# How to Link to a Readme File
This topic describes how to use the BizTalk Server Administration console or the command line to add a Readme.htm file that will appear when a user clicks a link in Add or Remove Programs in Control Panel.  
  
 When you install a BizTalk application, a link to a file named Readme.htm is automatically created in Add or Remove Programs in Control Panel. If a Readme.htm file exists in the application's installation folder, a user can open it by clicking the "Click here for support information" link that appears under the name of your application and then clicking "%BTAD_InstallDir%\Readme.htm." (%BTAD_InstallDir% is an environment variable representing the application installation folder.)  
  
 So that the link to the Readme.htm file from Add or Remove Programs in Control Panel will function, you should do the following:  
  
- Name the file Readme.htm.  
  
- When you add Readme.htm to your application, specify the application installation folder as the destination location of the file (as described in step 6 below). The default application installation folder is %ProgramFiles%\Generated by BizTalk\ApplicationName. You can express this path as %BTAD_InstallDir%.  
  
  If you want to overwrite a Readme.htm file that already exists in the application, specify the Overwrite option. If you do not specify that option and a Readme.htm file already exists in the application, the add operation will fail.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  If you install more than one .msi file for this application, and select a different installation path for each .msi file, the Readme.htm file included in the last installed .msi file will be opened when the user clicks the Readme link in Add or Remove Programs.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  If you do not create a Readme file and add it to your application as described in this topic, nothing will appear when the user clicks the Readme link.  
  
## Prerequisites  
 To perform the procedure in this topic, you must be logged on with an account that is a member of the BizTalk Server Administrators group. For more detailed information on permissions, see [Permissions Required for Deploying and Managing a BizTalk Application](../core/permissions-required-for-deploying-and-managing-a-biztalk-application.md).  
  
## To add a Readme file to an application  
  
#### Using the BizTalk Server Administration console  
  
1. Click **Start**, point to **All Programs**, point to [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerStartMenuItemui](../includes/btsbiztalkserverstartmenuitemui-md.md)], and then click **BizTalk Server Administration**.  
  
2. In the console tree, expand [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerAdminConsoleui](../includes/btsbiztalkserveradminconsoleui-md.md)] and the BizTalk group containing the application to which you want to add a Readme.htm file.  
  
3. Expand **Applications** and the application to which you want to add a Readme.htm file.  
  
4. Right-click the **Resources** folder, point to **Add**, and then click **Resources**.  
  
5. Click **Add**, select the Readme.htm file, and then click **Open**.  
  
6. In **Destination location**, the full path of the application installation folder is specified by default, as follows: %BTAD_InstallDir%\Readme.htm. You should not change this path. If the correct path to the application installation folder is not provided, the file is not copied to it during installation, and the link will not work.  
  
7. When finished, click **OK**.  
  
#### Using the command line  
  
1. Open a command prompt as follows: Click **Start**, click **Run**, type `cmd`, and then click **OK**.  
  
2. Type the following command, substituting the appropriate values, as described in the following table:  
  
    **BTSTask AddResource** [**/ApplicationName:**<em>value</em>] **/Type:System.BizTalk:File** [**/Overwrite**] **/Source:**<em>value</em> [**/Destination:**<em>value</em>] [**/Server:**<em>value</em>] [**/Database:**<em>value</em>]  
  
    Example:  
  
    **BTSTask AddResource /ApplicationName:MyApplication /Type:System.BizTalk:File /Overwrite /Source:"C:\Readme Files\MyApplication\Readme.htm" /Destination:%BTAD_InstallDir%\Readme.htm" /Server:MyServer /Database:BizTalkMgmtDB**  
  
   |Parameter|Value|  
   |---------------|-----------|  
   |**/ApplicationName**|Name of the BizTalk application to which to add the Readme file. If the application name is not specified, the default BizTalk application is used. I the name includes spaces, you must enclose it in double quotation marks (").|  
   |**/Type**|System.BizTalk:File (This value is not case-sensitive.)|  
   |**/Overwrite**|Option to overwrite an existing file. If not specified, and a file already exists in the application that has the same name as the file being added, the AddResource operation fails.|  
   |**/Source**|Full path of the source file, including the file name. If the path includes spaces, you must enclose it in double quotation marks (").|  
   |**/Destination**|%BTAD_InstallDir%\Readme.htm<br /><br /> This represents the full path of the application installation folder and Readme.htm file and is the location where the Readme.htm file will be copied during installation. If not provided, the file is not copied to the application installation folder and the Readme.htm link in Add or Remove Programs will not function.|  
   |**/Server**|Name of the SQL Server instance hosting the BizTalk Management database. Required if you specify the Database parameter. If not provided, localhost is used. If Server and Database parameters are not specified, the default BizTalk Management database for the group is used.|  
   |**/Database**|Name of the BizTalk Management database. Required if you specify the Server parameter. If Server and Database parameters are not specified, the default BizTalk Management database for the group is used.|  
  
## See Also  
 [Creating and Modifying BizTalk Applications](../core/creating-and-modifying-biztalk-applications.md)   
 [AddResource Command: File](../core/addresource-command-file.md)