---
title: ISSOWrapper.InitializeAdapter Method
TOCTitle: ISSOWrapper.InitializeAdapter Method
ms:assetid: 70c6acf1-98a7-486c-bb97-3cb1200b7616
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Aa745416(v=BTS.80)
ms:contentKeyID: 51528862
ms.date: 08/30/2017
mtps_version: v=BTS.80
dev_langs:
- c++
---

# ISSOWrapper.InitializeAdapter Method

 

Initializes the password sync adapter to the ENTSSO system.

## Syntax

``` c++
  
HRESULT InitializeAdapter(  
BSTR bstrAdapterName,  
ULONG ulFlags,  
ULONGLONG* phNotifyEvent,  
GUID* pguidTrackingId  
);  
```

#### Parameters

`bstrAdapterName`  
The unique adapter name.

`ulFlags`  
A bitwise combination of the [SSO\_NOTIFICATION\_FLAG](sso-notification-flag-enumeration-com.md) values.

`phNotifyEvent`  
When this method returns, contains an event handle created by PS Helper. You should cast the return value to a HANDLE on return, as MIDL does not support the HANDLE data type. This parameter can be NULL if the event handle is not required by the adapter.

`pguidTrackingId`  
When this method returns, contains the tracking ID generated by ENTSSO. The tracking ID is used for auditing purposes. This parameter can be NULL if the tracking ID is not required by the adapter.

## Return Value

This method returns an HRESULT indicating whether it completed correctly. For more information, see the Exceptions section.

## Exceptions

This method returns an HRESULT containing one of the values in the following table.

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Value</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>S_OK</td>
<td>The initialization was successful.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>S_FALSE</td>
<td>The initialization was successful, but was a reconnect. For more information, see the Remarks section.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>E_ACCESSDENIED</td>
<td>Access is denied.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>ENTSSO_E_NO_SERVER</td>
<td>Could not contact the ENTSSO server. Check that the ENTSSO service is running.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Remarks

InitializeAdapter acts in the same way as the [ISSONotification.InitializeAdapter Method](issonotification-initializeadapter-method.md).

