---
title: Service Details Properties Dialog Box
TOCTitle: Service Details Properties Dialog Box
ms:assetid: 94d63299-fed9-4ae1-aae5-d830d761c00f
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/Aa577411(v=BTS.80)
ms:contentKeyID: 51529803
ms.date: 08/30/2017
mtps_version: v=BTS.80
f1_keywords:
- bts10.admin.servicedetails
---

# Service Details Properties Dialog Box

 

Use the **Service Details** window to view details relating to properties, error information (if any), and messages of individual service instances selected on a Query page. You can use the \[up arrow\] and \[down arrow\] buttons on each tab to scroll through individual instances in the query and see service instance properties for each.

## General Tab

## UIElement List

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Use this</th>
<th>To do this</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>&lt;Service Name&gt;</strong></td>
<td>Displays the name of the service that generates the selected service instance. The service is a port or an orchestration.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>[Up arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll up the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>[Down arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll down the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Status</strong></td>
<td>Displays the existing condition of the service instance. Status codes are:<br />
<br />
- Ready to Run<br />
- Scheduled<br />
- Dehydrated<br />
- Suspended (Resumable)<br />
- Suspended (Non-resumable)<br />
- Active<br />
- In Breakpoint</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Start Time</strong></td>
<td>Displays the time when the service instance was created.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Service Class</strong></td>
<td>Displays the kind of service displayed. Possible values are:<br />
<br />
- Messaging<br />
- Orchestration<br />
- Isolated Adapter<br />
- Routing Failure Report.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Instance ID</strong></td>
<td>Displays the Global Universal Identification (GUID) of the service instance.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Pending Operation</strong></td>
<td>Displays the operation that was requested for the service instance. Operations are:<br />
<br />
- None<br />
- Suspend<br />
- Terminate</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Pending Operation Time</strong></td>
<td>Displays the time when the requested operation was placed in the system queue.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Processing Server</strong></td>
<td>Displays the name of the SQL server that processes the service instance or was the last server to process the service instance.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Error Information

If a service instance has failed, the reasons for the failure appear on the **Error Information** tab.

## UIElement List

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Use this</th>
<th>To do this</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Error Code</strong></td>
<td>Displays the hexadecimal error code generated by the messaging engine.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Suspend Time</strong></td>
<td>Displays the time when the service instance was suspended.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Error Description</strong></td>
<td>Displays a complete description of the nature of the error and where the error took place.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>[Up arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll up the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>[Down arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll down the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>For more information, see Help and Support Center</strong></td>
<td>Click to go to the BizTalk Server Product Support site, where you can find additional information about Microsoft BizTalk Server.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Messages

## UIElement List

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Use this</th>
<th>To do this</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Messages referenced by the service instance</strong></td>
<td>Displays messages to which the selected service instance contains references. Right-click a message instance to display the context menu.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>[Up arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll up the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>[Down arrow]</strong></td>
<td>Click to scroll down the list of service instances on the Query page.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Messages Context Menu

## UIElement List

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Use this</th>
<th>To do this</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Message Details</strong></td>
<td>Displays the <strong>Message Details Properties</strong> window, where you can view details of messages in the message box.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Save to File</strong></td>
<td>Displays a <strong>Browse For Folder</strong> dialog box, where you can select the folder to which to save the message.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><strong>Track Message</strong></td>
<td>Turns on message tracking for the displayed message. A confirmation window appears that requires you to confirm the tracking request. If the message is no longer in the MessageBox (terminated or completed), an error message informs you that the message is no longer available.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><strong>Add/Remove Columns</strong></td>
<td>Displays the <strong>Add/Remove Columns</strong> dialog box, where you can select columns from the Available Columns list to display on the <strong>Messages</strong> tab. You can also remove or reorder columns in this dialog box.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

