---
title: "Expose adapter settings as a binding property using the WCF LOB Adapter SDK | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 59728113-917e-4bca-8e1a-609cd6558944
caps.latest.revision: 16
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Expose adapter settings as a binding property using the WCF LOB Adapter SDK
The [!INCLUDE[afproductnameshort](../../includes/afproductnameshort-md.md)] uses the properties defined in different classes for configuring the connection pool, metadata cache, and other adapter behaviors. This topic describes how you can surface these properties as binding properties, so that the adapter consumer can set them through a configuration file.  
  
### To surface an adapter setting as an adapter binding property  
  
1. Start Visual Studio, and then on the **File** menu, point to **New**, and then click **Project**.  
  
2. Choose the **WCF LOB Adapter** template, and then provide the other adapter project information.  
  
3. Step through the [!INCLUDE[afdevwizardnamelong](../../includes/afdevwizardnamelong-md.md)]. When you get to the **Adapter Properties** page, add the binding properties that you want to expose by providing a **Property name**, **Data type**, and **Default value**, and then click **Add** to add the new adapter property.  
  
4. Complete the [!INCLUDE[afdevwizardnameshort](../../includes/afdevwizardnameshort-md.md)]. Your project should contain new files provided by the wizard.  
  
5. In Visual Studio, in Solution Explorer, open the adapter-derived class. For example, if the name of your adapter project is "SampleAdapter", the adapter derived class can be found in "SampleAdapter.cs".  
  
6. Remove the private variables for the properties that you want to get and set from adapter settings. The private variables were generated by the [!INCLUDE[afdevwizardnameshort](../../includes/afdevwizardnameshort-md.md)].  
  
7. Update the get/set methods to read/write values from/to adapter settings. The following example uses an adapter property to allow enablement of performance counters.  
  
   ```  
   [System.Configuration.ConfigurationProperty("enablePerfCounters", DefaultValue = false)]  
   public bool EnablePerfCounters  
   {  
       get { return environmentSettings.PerformanceCounters.Enabled;    }  
       set { environmentSettings.PerformanceCounters.Enabled = value; }  
   }  
   ```  
  
8. In Visual Studio, on the **File** menu, click **Save All**.  
  
## See Also  
 [Tutorial 1: Develop the Echo Adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/wcf-lob-adapter-sdk/tutorial-1-develop-the-echo-adapter.md) 
 [Development Activities](../../esb-toolkit/development-activities.md)