---
title: "Integrated Link Service Configuration and Reconfiguration on Host Integration Server2 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 2d8129c3-3859-49e8-9c1d-a8aef89f58a4
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Integrated Link Service Configuration and Reconfiguration on Host Integration Server
In Host Integration Server, the initial configuration functions are performed by your configuration DLL running in the context of SNA Manager.  
  
 After your link service has been created, SNA Manager must be able to locate its configuration DLL when the operator  tries to reconfigure the link service. To support this feature, when your configuration DLL initially creates the link service, it must put a new value in the registry of the target server as follows:  
  
 **SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\\<yourLinkService\>\Parameters**  
  
 **DLLName: REG_SZ: \<configDllName>**  
  
 where:  
  
 *\<configDllName>* is the file name and extension of the configuration DLL, for example, IBMSDCFG.DLL. No path is specified in the value.  
  
 This value replaces **InfName**, which was used in SNA Server 2.*x* to name the path to the .inf file.  
  
 Since SNA Manager can be running on a management workstation remote from the target server, the configuration DLL must be able to create configuration information on the target server. Host Integration Server loads the appropriate configuration DLL over the network from \\<snaRoot\>\SYSTEM\HWSETUP\\<cpu\> on the target server as needed.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  There is an alternate way of locating the link service configuration DLL (linkcfg) if the link services from the vendor were not included with the released version of Host Integration Server.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Depending on the setup tool used by the vendor, the vendor's setup software may not be able to read the registry and locate the directory where link services should be installed. To resolve this problem, the SNA Manager scans the **LinkServicesInstalled** key prior to making the call to the link service configuration DLL. The SNA Manager checks for a % character in the *configDllName* and if it exists, *configDllName* will be interpreted differently than just the name of the configuration DLL. The following example illustrates this case:  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Under the **SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\\<yourLinkService\>\Parameters key**  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  **DLLName: REG_SZ: "share\\%s\\<relative path and DLL Name\>**  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  If a %s string is found, \\\ServerName will be prepended and the CPU architecture string (i386) will be substituted for %s.