---
title: "Access Denied Error when Attempting to Connect to Resources on a Host Integration Server1 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: d9a00b26-a123-4f44-9543-2bbee8b89e08
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs; plarsen"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Access Denied Error when Attempting to Connect to Resources on a Host Integration Server
A service that is running as a local system account cannot access resources provided by a Host Integration Server due to security restrictions. If the service cannot be changed to run as a domain account, you can set the registry to enable the Host Integration Server to allow anonymous logons.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Allowing anonymous logons is less secure and should only be used if it is not possible to change the credentials for the service.  
  
 Two scenarios can be accommodated by making a registry change. The first scenario occurs when the SNA Client computers are running SNABase as a service and the service is configured to run as the local system account. In this scenario, SNABase attempts to open a sponsor connection to the Host Integration Server and the sponsor connection fails. To remedy this scenario, you can change the SNABase service to run as a valid Windows domain account. If that is not possible, then you can use the following registry entry on the Host Integration Server to force the SNA Base service to accept anonymous logons:  
  
1. Locate and then click the following key in the registry:  
  
    HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/System/CurrentControlSet/Services/SnaBase/Parameters  
  
2. On the **Edit** menu, point to **New**, and then click **DWORD Value**.  
  
3. Type `DenyAnonymousLogon`, and then press ENTER.  
  
4. On the **Edit** menu, click **Modify**.  
  
5. In the **Value data** field, type `0`, and then click **OK**.  
  
   The second scenario occurs when an application that uses Host Integration Server resources (such as APPC) is running as a service that is configured to use the local system account. To remedy this scenario you can change the application service to run as a valid Windows domain account. If that is not possible, then the registry entry must be made on the Host Integration Server for the SNA Server Service where the resources are located. In most cases this location is on the main SNA Server Service (SnaServr), however, there may be up to four SNA Server Services configured and the correct SNA Server Service must be configured with the registry entry. For the main SNA Server Service, the entry described earlier is created on the following key:  
  
   HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE/System/CurrentControlSet/Services/SnaServr/Parameters  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
>  This section contains steps that you can use to modify the registry. However, serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly. Therefore, make sure that you follow these steps carefully. For added protection, back up the registry before you modify it.