---
title: "How to Create Host Integration Designer XML (HIDX)  for the Managed Data Provider for Host Files | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: e3924940-96b7-42ac-882a-0e3fcb916807
caps.latest.revision: 4
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs; plarsen"
manager: "anneta"
---
# How to Create Host Integration Designer XML (HIDX)  for the Managed Data Provider for Host Files
After you have finished defining a remote environment for your application, you can use Visual Studio to create the Host Integration Designer XML (HIDX). Host Integration Server provides a variety of wizards and tools to help you in this process:  
  
1. Create a Host File project.  
  
2. Add one or more Host File Definitions to the project that will contain your application.  
  
3. Define the record layout for your host file using Host Integration Server Designer.  
  
    HIS Designer enables you to create record layouts to encode and decode records in host files.  
  
   After you create the Host Integration Designer XML (HIDX), you can deploy your HIDX file to your local computer and test the record layout against your host file.  
  
### To create assembly Host Integration Designer XML (HIDX) for use with the Managed Provider for Host Files  
  
1.  Start Visual Studio.  
  
2.  Click **File**, then **New**, and then click **Project**.  
  
3.  In the **New Project** dialog box, in the **Project types:** pane, click Host Integration Projects.  
  
4.  In the **Templates** pane, click **Host File Project**.  
  
5.  In the **Name** field, type the name of your project.  
  
6.  In the **Location** field, type the location to save your project, and then click **OK**.  
  
### To add an assembly to your project  
  
1.  Click **Project**, and then click **Add Host File Definition**.  
  
2.  On the **Add New Item** dialog box, in the **Templates** pane, confirm that .NET Client Library is highlighted.  
  
3.  In the **Name** field, type the name of the assembly, and then click **Add**.  
  
4.  In the Host Environment field, select **Host File for System z** or **Host File for System i**.  
  
5.  In the Host Language field, select **COBOL** or **RPG** (System i only).  
  
6.  Click the **Create** button to continue.  
  
### To define interfaces using the HIS Designer  
  
1.  If you do not have a Host Definition file (.cbl or .rpg) file available, you can use the **Import COBOL Wizard** or the **Import RPG Wizard** to define your interfaces.  
  
2.  If you want to manually create or modify the record layouts, you can do so using the console tree of HIS Designer.  
  
## See Also  
 [Creating an Application for the BizTalk Adapter for Host Applications](./creating-an-application-for-the-biztalk-adapter-for-host-applications2.md)