---
title: "Flush (CPI-C)2 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 529cde95-b0aa-4ead-a717-23fb7fd84fdb
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs; plarsen"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Flush (CPI-C)
The **Flush** call (function name **cmflus**) sends the contents of the send buffer of the local logical unit (LU) to the partner LU (and program). If the send buffer is empty, no action takes place.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
CM_ENTRY Flush(   
  unsigned char FAR *conversation_ID,    
  CM_INT32 FAR *return_code              
);  
```  
  
#### Parameters  
 *conversation_ID*  
 Supplied parameter. Specifies the identifier for the conversation. The value of this parameter was returned by [Initialize_Conversation](../core/initialize-conversation-cpi-c-1.md) or [Accept_Conversation](../core/accept-conversation-cpi-c-2.md).  
  
 *return_code*  
 The code returned from this call. The valid return codes are listed later in this topic.  
  
## Return Codes  
 CM_OK  
 Primary return code; the call executed successfully.  
  
 CM_OPERATION_NOT_ACCEPTED  
 Primary return code; a previous operation on this conversation is incomplete.  
  
 CM_OPERATION_INCOMPLETE  
 Primary return code; the operation has not completed (processing mode is nonblocking only) and is still in progress. The program can issue [Wait_For_Conversation](../core/wait-for-conversation-cpi-c-1.md) to await the completion of the operation, or [Cancel_Conversation](../core/cancel-conversation-cpi-c-2.md) to cancel the operation and conversation. If [Specify_Windows_Handle](../core/specify-windows-handle-cpi-c-2.md) has been called, the application should wait for notification by a Microsoft® Windows® message and not call **Wait_For_Conversation**.  
  
 CM_PROGRAM_PARAMETER_CHECK  
 Primary return code; the value specified by *conversation_ID* is invalid.  
  
 CM_PROGRAM_STATE_CHECK  
 Primary return code; the conversation was not in SEND or SEND_PENDING state when the program issued this call.  
  
 CM_PRODUCT_SPECIFIC_ERROR  
 Primary return code; a product-specific error occurred and has been logged in the products error log.  
  
## State Changes  
 The conversation must be in SEND or SEND_PENDING state.  
  
 If the call completes successfully, (*return_code* is CM_OK), the conversation is in SEND state.  
  
 Other return codes result in no state change.  
  
## Remarks  
 Data processed by [Send_Data](../core/send-data-cpi-c-2.md) accumulates in the local LUs send buffer until one of the following happens:  
  
- The local program issues the Flush call or other call that flushes the LUs send buffer. (Some send types, set by [Set_Send_Type](../core/set-send-type-cpi-c-2.md), include flush functionality.)  
  
- The buffer is full.  
  
  The allocation request generated by [Allocate](../core/allocate-cpi-c-2.md) and error information generated by [Send_Error](../core/send-error-cpi-c-2.md) are also buffered.