---
title: "How TI Associates a Method with a TP1 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 6bd5a257-a581-4117-836c-a30dbe25867c
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs; plarsen"
manager: "anneta"
---
# How TI Associates a Method with a TP
TI generally establishes some type of association between a method call in the Windows environment and the corresponding TP on the mainframe.  
  
 In the CICS TRM and ELM Link programming models, you can specify three names:  
  
- Mainframe transaction program (TP) name  
  
- TI component's method name  
  
- Source TP Name  
  
  The name of the mainframe TP is constant for a given remote environment (RE). CSMI (the Mirror transaction) is an example of a mainframe TP Name. Each method name can be associated with a different mainframe TP Name. In addition, a third name, called the Source TP Name, can be specified for each method. The Source TP Name can be used with DB2 to associate a specific mainframe TP (and TI method) with a region control task (RCT).  
  
  In the CICS TRM and ELM User Data programming models, each method in a TI component is associated with a TP Name, and multiple methods can be associated with the same TP Name. If multiple methods are associated with the same TP Name, TI assumes that the TP is able to distinguish between the requests generated by each method. The TI run-time environment should optionally provide Meta data to assist the TP with this process. When Meta data is included, the method name is sent as a fixed-length character string (32 characters) and is always the first item sent. The method name is left justified in the field and padded with blanks. Developers can specify the method-TP Name mapping on a per-method basis or as a default for the entire component.  
  
  When COBOL that is imported to build a TI component library contains REDEFINES clauses, the TP can expect different kinds of requests. The developer should consider creating a method for each REDEFINES group that represents a different message format. All of the methods created from these REDEFINES groups can map to the same TP.  
  
## See Also  
 [What WIP Does](../core/what-wip-does1.md)