---
title: "MC_FLUSH1 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: f80a09af-fc65-4499-9dff-78a1826fc451
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs; plarsen"
manager: "anneta"
---
# MC_FLUSH
The **MC_FLUSH** verb sends the contents of the local logical unit's (LU) send buffer to the partner LU and transaction program (TP). If the send buffer is empty, no action takes place.  
  
 The following structure describes the verb control block (VCB) used by the **MC_FLUSH** verb.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
struct mc_flush {  
    unsigned short  opcode;  
    unsigned char   opext;  
    unsigned char   reserv2;  
    unsigned short  primary_rc;  
    unsigned long   secondary_rc;  
    unsigned char   tp_id[8];  
    unsigned long   conv_id;  
};   
```  
  
## Members  
 *opcode*  
 Supplied parameter. Specifies the verb operation code, AP_M_FLUSH.  
  
 *opext*  
 Supplied parameter. Specifies the verb operation extension, AP_MAPPED_CONVERSATION.  
  
 *reserv2*  
 A reserved field.  
  
 *primary_rc*  
 Returned parameter. Specifies the primary return code set by APPC at the completion of the verb. The valid return codes vary depending on the APPC verb issued. See Return Codes for valid error codes for this verb.  
  
 *secondary_rc*  
 Returned parameter. Specifies the secondary return code set by APPC at the completion of the verb. The valid return codes vary depending on the APPC verb issued. See Return Codes for valid error codes for this verb.  
  
 *tp_id*  
 Supplied parameter. Identifies the local TP. The value of this parameter is returned by [TP_STARTED](../core/tp-started2.md) in the invoking TP or by [RECEIVE_ALLOCATE](../core/receive-allocate1.md) in the invoked TP.  
  
 *conv_id*  
 Supplied parameter. Provides the conversation identifier. The value of this parameter is returned by [MC_ALLOCATE](../core/mc-allocate2.md) in the invoking TP or by **RECEIVE_ALLOCATE** in the invoked TP.  
  
## Return Codes  
 AP_OK  
 Primary return code; the verb executed successfully.  
  
 AP_PARAMETER_CHECK  
 Primary return code; the verb did not execute because of a parameter error.  
  
 AP_BAD_CONV_ID  
  
 Secondary return code; the value of **conv_id** did not match a conversation identifier assigned by APPC.  
  
 AP_BAD_TP_ID  
  
 Secondary return code; the value of **tp_id** did not match a TP identifier assigned by APPC.  
  
 AP_STATE_CHECK  
 Primary return code; the verb did not execute because it was issued in an invalid state.  
  
 AP_FLUSH_NOT_SEND_STATE  
  
 Secondary return code; the conversation was not in SEND state.  
  
 AP_COMM_SUBSYSTEM_ABENDED  
 Primary return code; indicates one of the following conditions:  
  
- The node used by this conversation encountered an ABEND.  
  
- The connection between the TP and the PU 2.1 node has been broken (a LAN error).  
  
- The SnaBase at the TP's computer encountered an ABEND.  
  
  The system administrator should examine the error log to determine the reason for the ABEND.  
  
  AP_CONVERSATION_TYPE_MIXED  
  Primary return code; the TP has issued both basic and mapped conversation verbs. Only one type can be issued in a single conversation.  
  
  AP_INVALID_VERB_SEGMENT  
  Primary return code; the VCB extended beyond the end of the data segment.  
  
  AP_STACK_TOO_SMALL  
  Primary return code; the stack size of the application is too small to execute the verb. Increase the stack size of your application.  
  
  AP_CONV_BUSY  
  Primary return code; there can only be one outstanding conversation verb at a time on any conversation. This can occur if the local TP has multiple threads, and more than one thread is issuing APPC calls using the same **conv_id**.  
  
  AP_UNEXPECTED_DOS_ERROR  
  Primary return code; the operating system has returned an error to APPC while processing an APPC call from the local TP. The operating system return code is returned through the **secondary_rc**. It appears in Intel byte-swapped order. If the problem persists, consult the system administrator.  
  
## Remarks  
 Data processed by [MC_SEND_DATA](../core/mc-send-data1.md) accumulates in the local LU's send buffer until one of the following happens:  
  
- The local TP issues **MC_FLUSH** (or other verb that flushes the LU's send buffer).  
  
- The buffer is full.  
  
  The request generated by [MC_ALLOCATE](../core/mc-allocate2.md) is also buffered.  
  
  The conversation must be in SEND state when the TP issues this verb.  
  
  There is no state change.