---
description: "Learn more about: Open(PLU) OResponse"
title: "Open(PLU) OResponse2 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: 5955d0a0-92ee-4766-bac2-2950dc85b490
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "christopherhouser"
ms.author: "hisdocs"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Open(PLU) OResponse
The **Open(PLU) OK Response** message flows from the application to the node. It is used with a primary logical unit (PLU) connection.  
  
## Syntax  
  
```  
  
struct Open(PLU) OK Response {  
    PTRBFHDR  nxtqptr;  
    PTRBFELT  hdreptr;  
    CHAR      numelts;  
    CHAR      msgtype;  
    CHAR      srcl;  
    CHAR      srcp;  
    INTEGER   srci;  
    CHAR      destl;  
    CHAR      destp;  
    INTEGER   desti;  
    CHAR      ophdr.openqual;  
    CHAR      ophdr.opentype;  
    CHAR      ophdr.appltype;  
    CHAR      ophdr.opluno;  
    INTEGER   ophdr.opresid;  
    INTEGER   ophdr.icreditr;  
    INTEGER   ophdr.icredits;  
    CHAR      ophdr.opninfo1;  
};   
struct Open(PLU) OK Response {  
    PTRBFELT hdreptr->elteptr;  
    INTEGER hdreptr->startd;  
    INTEGER hdreptr->endd;  
    CHAR hdreptr->trpad;  
    CHAR[268] hdreptr->dataru;  
};   
struct Open(PLU) OK Response {  
    PTRBFELT   hdreptr->elteptr->elteptr;  
    INTEGER    hdreptr->elteptr->startd;  
    INTEGER    hdreptr->elteptr->endd;  
    CHAR       hdreptr->elteptr->trpad;  
    CHAR[268]  hdreptr->elteptr->dataru;  
};   
```  
  
## Members  
 *nxtqptr*  
 Pointer to next buffer header.  
  
 *hdreptr*  
 Pointer to first buffer element.  
  
 *numelts*  
 Number of buffer elements (0x02).  
  
 *msgtype*  
 Message type OPENMSG (0x01).  
  
 *srcl*  
 Source locality.  
  
 *srcp*  
 Source partner.  
  
 *srci*  
 Source index.  
  
 *destl*  
 Destination locality.  
  
 *destp*  
 Destination partner.  
  
 *desti*  
 Destination index.  
  
 *ophdr.openqual*  
 Open qualifier RSPOK (0x02).  
  
 *ophdr.opentype*  
 Open type LUSEC (0x02).  
  
 *ophdr.appltype*  
 Application program interface type.  
  
 0x02 (FMI application)  
  
 *ophdr.opluno*  
 Logical unit number.  
  
 *ophdr.opresid*  
 Resource identifier.  
  
 *ophdr.icreditr*  
 Initial credit for flow from application to local node: zero.  
  
 *ophdr.icredits*  
 Initial credit for flow from local node to application; only valid if APPLPAC = 0x01.  
  
 *ophdr.opninfo1*  
 Negotiable bind indicator.  
  
 Bind is not negotiable  (0x00)  
  
 Bind is negotiable        (0x01)  
  
 **Element 1**  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr*  
 Pointer to buffer element.  
  
 *hdreptr–>startd*  
 Start of data in this buffer element (1).  
  
 *hdreptr–>endd*  
 End of data in this buffer element.  
  
 *hdreptr–>trpad*  
 Reserved.  
  
 *hdreptr–>dataru*  
 Data RU, as follows:  
  
 dataru[0–9]  
  
 Source name.  
  
 dataru[10–19]  
  
 Destination name.  
  
 dataru[20]  
  
 Segment delivery option.  
  
 Do not deliver request/response unit (RU) segments  (0x00)  
  
 Deliver RU segments            (0x01)  
  
 dataru[21]  
  
 Application pacing option.  
  
 No application pacing      (0x00)  
  
 Application pacing          (0x01)  
  
 dataru[22]  
  
 Application cancel option: Cancel is generated by:  
  
 local node    (0x00)  
  
 application   (0x01)  
  
 dataru[23]  
  
 Application transaction numbers option: transaction numbers are:  
  
 not supported by application    (0x00)  
  
 supported by application         (0x01)  
  
 dataru[24]  
  
 BIND table index  
  
 BIND_TABLE_INDEX_PRT (1) (printer session)  
  
 BIND_TABLE_INDEX_CRT (2) (display session)  
  
 **Element 2**  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr–>elteptr*  
 Pointer to buffer element (NIL).  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr–>startd*  
 Start of data in this buffer element (13).  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr–>endd*  
 End of data in this buffer element.  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr–>trpad*  
 Reserved.  
  
 *hdreptr–>elteptr–>dataru*  
 Data RU, as follows:  
  
 dataru[13]  
  
 The **BIND** RU.  
  
## Remarks  
  
-   The **Open(PLU) OK Response** message consists of a buffer header, an initial element containing the source and destination names and connection information control block (CICB), followed by elements containing the **BIND** RU received from the host.  
  
-   The application should reflect the source and destination Locality Partner Index (LPIs) and the source and destination names from the [Open(PLU) Request](../core/open-plu-request2.md) and must supply the I part of the source LPI.  
  
-   The fields from segment delivery option to bind table index (in the first element) are referred to in the text as the PLU CICB. For more information about the contents of the CICB, see [Opening the PLU Connection](./opening-the-plu-connection1.md).  
  
-   The **BIND** RU can be up to 256 bytes in length.  
  
-   For LUA, the **BIND** RU is not preceded by its transmission header (TH) and response header (RH). This is in contrast with the [Open(PLU) Request](../core/open-plu-request2.md), where the TH and RH are included.  
  
-   As in the **Open(PLU) Request**, the **icredits** value is in units of chunks if chunking is being used.
