---
title: "TN52501 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "11/30/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: f2625598-7f7e-4ba3-a008-9f50019e6a0e
caps.latest.revision: 3
author: "gplarsen"
ms.author: "hisdocs"
manager: "anneta"
---
# TN5250
TN5250 acts as a gateway that allows an AS/400 access to TN5250 clients providing 5250 terminal emulation.  
  
 To provide for TN5250 service, you must create TN5250/AS400 definitions that map to the AS/400. TN5250/AS400 definitions include local and remote APPC LUs, the mode (the default is QPCSUPP), AS/400 user name and password, terminal type, and IP address and subnet mask.  
  
 TN5250 supports multiple sessions up to the limits of the mode used in the TN5250/AS400 definition.  
  
## IP Settings  
 IP settings assigned to TN5250/AS400 definitions allow TN5250 clients to connect to the AS/400. By default, the TN5250/AS400 definition is not assigned an IP address or a subnet mask. This will allow any TN5250 client to connect to the AS/400.  
  
 If you want to restrict the use of a TN5250/AS400 definition to one or more specific TN5250 clients, you should determine the IP addresses or host names of the client computers that will use the TN5250/AS400 definition. For client computers using Windows, you can determine the IP address, subnet mask, and host name by typing `ipconfig/all` at the command prompt on the client computer.  
  
 If a workstation's name can be resolved using name resolution, it can be used in place of IP addresses. For example, if a workstation name is Giraffe, and if the IP name list contains that name, it will allow that workstation access. Name resolution works with WINS, DHCP, or similar name-resolution services. For more information about WINS and DHCP, see the Windows Help.  
  
 You can modify, delete, or add IP addresses and subnet masks within a TN5250/AS400 definition. If you want to change the configuration of multiple TN5250/AS400 definitions, you can only change the properties of items that the TN5250/AS400 definitions have in common. You cannot change the name of remote LUs.  
  
 You can add new IP addresses and subnet masks to multiple TN5250/AS400 definitions. If the new IP address or subnet mask already exists on some of the TN5250/AS400 definitions, but not on others, the addition will occur without duplication in the ones that already have the IP address or subnet mask. You can also modify or delete the IP addresses that the TN5250/AS400 definitions have in common and that appear on the IP address list.  
  
 Configuration changes are apparent only to users who establish a connection after the changes are saved. Users who were connected at the time the configuration changes were made are not affected.  
  
## See Also  
 [TN5250 Administration](../core/tn5250-administration2.md)