---
title: "Troubleshooting Tools and Tips1 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "10/13/2017"
ms.prod: "host-integration-server"
ms.reviewer: ""
ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: d7c09834-a103-4719-b00c-cb175a48997d
caps.latest.revision: 4
author: MandiOhlinger
manager: anneta
---
# Troubleshooting Tools and Tips
Using the [!INCLUDE[hisHostIntServNoVersion](../core/includes/hishostintservnoversion-md.md)] management console, SNA Manager, you can view the status and properties of services, connections, 3270 sessions, APPC sessions, LUA sessions and the number of active users. Server status information includes Active, Inactive, Pending, Stopping, Active [Out of Date] or Error. If the server is active, the number of licensed users and licensed sessions is also shown  
  
 If you have an Active [Out of Date] status, the server needs to be restarted to bring the internal parameters up to date with the latest configuration changes. The Error status indicates that an unexpected condition has made the server inaccessible to the SNA Manager.  
  
 Connection status can be Active, Pending, Stopping, or Inactive. On Demand connections can also show a status of "On Demand", meaning that the connection will become active when needed. Incoming connections can also show "Incoming", meaning that the connection is available to receive incoming calls.  
  
 The status of a non-APPC LU can be Inactive, In Session, SSCP, Available, or Pending. A downstream LU can also have a status of Unavailable. The SSCP status indicates that the LU is in use but is not yet bound to a specific host application. The Available status indicates that the LU is recognized by the host as an available LU. Pending status indicates that a user is trying to access the LU but either the connection is inactive or the mainframe does not recognize the LU.  
  
 NetView is helpful for reporting system alerts between mainframes and [!INCLUDE[hisHostIntServNoVersion](../core/includes/hishostintservnoversion-md.md)]. For more information about NetView, see [Network Management Support](../core/network-management-support.md) NetView uses NVAlert to provide the ability for the host system console to receive and display alerts generated by Windows and applications running on the Windows computer.  
  
 Response Time Monitor (RTM) measures the amount of time it takes for a host to respond during 3270 display sessions. RTM is only supported by certain emulators. You can specify the times at which RTM should send data, as well as the trigger that will cause RTM to register that the host has responded. For more information, see [Monitoring Mainframe Response Times](../core/monitoring-mainframe-response-times.md).  
  
 When a problem occurs on [!INCLUDE[hisHostIntServNoVersion](../core/includes/hishostintservnoversion-md.md)], the Windows event logs can tell you the sequence and type of events that led up to the problem. For more information about event logs, see [Status and Performance Tools](../core/status-and-performance-tools.md).  
  
 System Monitor allows you to measure the performance of your computer or other computers on the network. You can monitor connections, LU sessions, and adapters with System Monitor.  
  
 Tracing is the action of recording activity between or within components of [!INCLUDE[hisHostIntServNoVersion](../core/includes/hishostintservnoversion-md.md)]. Tracing can provide detailed information of internal activities on the Server. It is helpful in isolating problems and is frequently used by product support personnel.  
  
 In this section are the following topics:  
  
 [Four Most Common Problems](../core/four-most-common-problems.md)  
  
 [APPC or LUA Application Failures](../core/appc-or-lua-application-failures.md)