---
title: "Limitations of BizTalk Adapter for Siebel eBusiness Applications | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "limitations of, Siebel adapter"
  - "Siebel adapter, limitations of"
ms.assetid: fda63dd6-bad5-4f6d-8cc1-5855efb6f063
caps.latest.revision: 5
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Limitations of BizTalk Adapter for Siebel eBusiness Applications
The following are known limitations of the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel](../../includes/adaptersiebel-md.md)]:  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] is not compatible with Microsoft BizTalk Adapter for Siebel eBusiness Applications, the previous release of the adapter. The current release of the adapter does not support sending and receiving messages that have schemas generated by using the earlier version of the adapter.  
  
  > [!NOTE]
  >  You can modify the BizTalk projects for previous version of the Siebel adapter to use the new WCF-based [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)]. For more information, see [Migrating BizTalk Projects Created Using the Previous Version of the Siebel Adapter](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ae61d3df-c5ca-4891-86b1-9f0dd6d3a59e).  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not support workflow objects.  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not validate the format in which a client passes a time value to the Siebel system. Adapter clients must make sure that the value specified for a date and time field adheres to a format in which the Siebel system expects.  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not perform schema validation. For example, a field of length 30 can take values with length 100, if allowed by the Siebel system. It can also lead to a loss of data in certain scenarios because the data that the client inserts through business objects might not necessarily be the data that is actually written to the database. Adapter clients must explicitly validate the input against the schema that is surfaced by the adapter. However, the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does validate that all required fields (for business components) or arguments (for business services) are specified.  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] expects the time values to be specified in standard Siebel format—that is HH:MM:SS. Time values that are specified in any other format will produce an error, and the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] throws a `TargetSystemException`.  
  
- In certain scenarios, the Siebel application might or might not throw an error message. For example, a search operation using an expression might either throw an exception or return zero accords. Accordingly, the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] might throw a `TargetSystemException` or get an empty XML as the output.  
  
- While retrieving data from the Siebel system using the WCF service model, the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not deserialize XMLs having more than 65536 nodes. Make sure the output XML has nodes less than or equal to 65536. You can work around this limitation by modifying the app.config file for your application. For instructions, see [Troubleshooting Operational Issues with the Siebel adapter](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-siebel/troubleshoot-operational-issues-with-the-siebel-adapter.md).  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] retrieves the maximum length for a field from the business component layer, as opposed to the database layer. So, if you try to insert a value that complies with the maximum length of the database column, but which is greater than the maximum length of the corresponding field for a business component, the value written to the database might be different from the value you wanted to enter.  
  
- While performing batch operations (Insert, Update, and Delete), the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] throws an error if the first operation results in an error. However, if the first operation succeeds and any of the subsequent operations fail, the adapter does not throw an error but rather returns the IDs for records that correspond to the successful operations in the output. Adapter clients must explicitly verify whether all the operations have been successful.  
  
- Due to issues with timeout handling by the underlying Siebel client API, the [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not support command and connection timeout.  
  
- Consider a scenario where user "A" generates the metadata for an operation in Siebel. Another user "B", having lesser privileges than user "A," will be able to access the metadata. The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not perform any checks to validate whether user "B" must get access to the metadata. However, because of insufficient privileges, user "B" might not be able to execute any operation on the Siebel system by using the metadata.  
  
- The [!INCLUDE[adaptersiebel_short](../../includes/adaptersiebel-short-md.md)] does not support specifying a connection URI that has special characters for any of the parameter values. For each parameter value that contains special characters, make sure you replace the special characters with the corresponding values, as specified by the URI encoding standards.  
  
- When using the adapters with [!INCLUDE[btsBizTalkServerNoVersion](../../includes/btsbiztalkservernoversion-md.md)], if the credentials on the WCF-Custom send port are incorrect, the request messages are not processed. After you specify the correct credentials, the message is sent to the Siebel system, and a response is received. However, the response message is not available to the out port. In such scenarios, you might need to restart the host instance.  
  
## See Also  
 [Understand BizTalk Adapter for Siebel eBusiness Applications](../../adapters-and-accelerators/adapter-siebel/understand-biztalk-adapter-for-siebel-ebusiness-applications.md)