---
title: "Operations on Functions and Procedures with REF CURSOR Parameters1 | Microsoft Docs"
ms.custom: ""
ms.date: "06/08/2017"
ms.prod: "biztalk-server"
ms.reviewer: ""

ms.suite: ""
ms.tgt_pltfrm: ""
ms.topic: "article"
ms.assetid: d6801c1e-7992-40a0-bab7-87957840cedd
caps.latest.revision: 7
author: "MandiOhlinger"
ms.author: "mandia"
manager: "anneta"
---
# Operations on Functions and Procedures with REF CURSOR Parameters
A REF CURSOR is a PL/SQL data type that represents a pointer to a server-side result set generated by executing a query. A REF CURSOR type enables input and output streaming of data and is ideal for transferring large amounts of data to and from a PL/SQL code. 

## Strongly-typed and weakly-typed REF CURSORs
The [!INCLUDE[adapteroracleebusinesslong](../../includes/adapteroracleebusinesslong-md.md)] provides support for strongly-typed and weakly-typed (SYS_REFCURSOR) REF CURSORs that can be passed to PL/SQL procedures and functions as IN and OUT parameters.  
  
- **IN REF CURSOR**. Adapter clients must use an IN REF CURSOR by supplying a PL/SQL code (as string) that opens REF CURSOR on the Oracle database. The adapter creates variable and sets it the opened REF CURSOR and calls a function or procedure with that variable. Therefore, IN REF CURSOR parameters in PL/SQL stored procedure and functions should be represented as strings that take a PL/SQL code block as input value marking the OUT REF CURSOR variable with a "?".  
  
- **OUT REF CURSOR**. OUT REF CURSOR parameters are returned as either strongly-typed or weakly-typed result sets. The type of the result set returned depends on whether the REF CURSOR parameter is declared as a strongly-typed or weakly-typed REF CURSOR in the stored procedure or function definition on the Oracle server.  
  
- **IN OUT REF CURSOR parameters**.  Because the [!INCLUDE[adapteroraclebusinessshort](../../includes/adapteroraclebusinessshort-md.md)] models IN REF CURSOR parameters as strings and OUT REF CURSOR parameters as complex types, it cannot support a single type for an IN OUT REF CURSOR parameter. For this reason, it treats IN OUT REF CURSOR parameters as two different parameters: an IN parameter in the request message and an OUT parameter in the response message.  
  
## See Also  
 [What Operations Can be Performed Using the Adapter?](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/cc185219(v=bts.10).aspx)